<p>GitHub encompasses a huge community of programmers, including people who do not necessarily know how to program well, but still want to use certain tools, for ex., <a href="#" onclick="showPage('page6')">APIs</a> . Submitting and pushing changes into one’s website does not simply update the website - instead, a new version is created. That happens because GitHub allows users to have <b>“software version control”</b>, which stores all previously submitted and pushed versions onto the website. It is particularly useful to avoid “conflicting edits” when a whole team is working on the same code (Github, 2024). In the case of working on this particular website, I was reassured that if a complicated mistake was made in the code, it would be possible to come back exactly where it was needed to, because each submission had a description of what the purpose of an update was. Moreover, shared authorship is made possible if a user allows GitHub to assign them <b>co-authoring</b> under their individual changes with a message “Co-authored-by:” (Tina Cloud).<br>
GitHub praises its efforts to have total <b>transparency</b> to create “a safe, open, and inclusive platform for code collaboration”, and their argument is stronger due to the public access of their various transparency reports (Transparency Center, GitHub (a)). Surprisingly, GitHub “sometimes receives official requests from governments to remove content”, with the majority of those requests, based on the 2021-2025 statistics, being from Russia. In 2025, only 1 of such Russian governmental requests proceeded (out of 70 received in total). Another country out of only 9 countries that got their requests proceeded in the last 5 years is the US: in 2021 they made GitHub take down 8 of their 9 requests (Transparency Center, GitHub (b)). It is difficult to view the whole picture with abstract data while not knowing about the exact content that was taken down, but disclosing such potentially sensitive information proves that <b>GitHub takes their transparency seriously</b>.</p>